yeah I'm just gonna do just
um a little bit of context on Robert
Lopez who's obviously zero for just
works I've known Robert I think we met
at like saster like 10 years ago in a
disaster event a while ago someone told
me that
um but I've known of him for a long time
I followed the space in the category and
saying sort of chessworks and zenefits
and others and watching sort of just
works emerge as a category winner there
but you know there aren't a lot of sales
leaders that can take a company from
like Inception to you know three four
hundred million in Revenue right and and
sort of survive all those phases of
growth
um and so I've been a huge fan of
Roberts for a long time and you know in
my opinion you know the two best go to
market sales leaders on the Eastern
Seaboard in my opinion are Robert and a
guy named Marc Jacobs I always have to
mention Mark I don't I don't think they
mind being a group together but they're
the two best so if you know if you're a
company that's
you know zero to 100 million
um in Revenue in in software SAS
um they're the two people I would call I
mean obviously Robert's got an IPO
imminent IPO at some level for just
words coming and probably not not a
super getable guy but
um yeah he's
um he's one of the best
um yeah so excited to have him on
disaster or part disaster I've been on
some stuff before so uh yeah excited to
welcome him
yeah second that on uh Mark great great
guy I've known him for uh for a very
very long time yeah yeah so I already
did the bio on me so
we just jump in here then yeah yeah all
right so uh the way we're gonna play
this is uh we have 10 things
um kind of things that we wish we knew
uh then that we that we know now
um and I'm gonna hit on the first five
and then Brennan's gonna hit on the
second five and then we're just gonna
kind of play off one another and uh
leave some time obviously at the end uh
to go for it so
um first up a lot of people seen
Glengarry Glenn Ross everyone talks
about ABC always be closing and and
that's important
um but I would argue in many ways
especially at a Growth Company it's like
this always be recruiting aspect
um I can't tell you you know from like
the early days you have no brand nobody
knows you you're just basically just
sheer hustle with an idea
um and you got to figure out what are
the hacks to kind of get people in
interested and so like one of the things
we did early on this is like seed stage
nobody knew us was that we just got like
a LinkedIn account you only get so many
LinkedIn messages and so we would run
out of them really fast and so we would
just view like thousands of profiles of
people that we thought were great and
then whoever like viewed us back
um was like a a signal
um and then we would just try to like
focus and use our precious credits with
very we didn't have a lot of money back
then
um and try to do that and you know
there's a few other things just that
like I've thought about over the years
which is like you know just keep a
spreadsheet right like keep a
spreadsheet try to commit and hold
yourself accountable of having like one
conversation a week because the best
people out there aren't currently
looking but it's you got to play the
long game and you really really got to
focus on you know having those like
introductory conversations and like
recruiting is recruiting for a reason
um and you really have to find the best
people and bring them in and you can't
just like hopefully they'll apply and I
think that actually holds true even more
importantly like now when you're a big
company because you know we have this
like huge recruiting team and people
will like reach out to candidates but
the power it holds when like a Founder a
CEO CEO or cro like reaches out directly
to a candidate just holds so much more
weight and uh and I think that like to
this day like I try to when we're when
we have roles we really want to hire
I'll just try to do it myself
um to the extent possible from a Time
perspective and just commit some time
there and and play the long game on some
of these candidates yeah I'm gonna I'll
weigh in an opposite big believer in
this talked about I've talked about some
of these Concepts
uh to the point where you know
everyone's heard it before but yeah like
it starts now right as a VP of sales and
it's you can't just recruit for you
can't start recruiting to solve the the
job opening that just opened it's a it's
a multi-year concept right and you want
to put yourself in a position where
two jobs you know the relationships
you're building today will pay off
um you know five you know three five ten
years later
and it when you start viewing it that
way and I know Robert's team has this
incredible team loyal team right people
that you know that you know obviously if
he ever were to do something Beyond just
works gosh forbid I'm sure he he never
will but
um you know he he probably knows who
he'd hire right it's not you know he
knows the first five people he'd hire
and so you know for myself it's it's
sort of the same thing right you always
if your VP of sales and uh you know you
go to a startup or a Growth Company you
should have a good idea about who the
people that you want to hire before you
actually take the job and if you don't
then you some you probably did something
wrong so yeah yeah and it's even people
that leave your company right and like
trying to stay in touch with those
because like great people will leave
right they're ambitious they want to do
things but like staying in touch because
you never know where that path is gonna
lead
um all right so moving on to uh number
two
um this is like one that is really like
you know early on we talked about like
at seed stage nobody knows you but once
you can get the marketing engine up and
running like it is like it inbound can
be like a drug right and you like do a
big campaign and you help us inbound and
maybe you have like five six reps and
like they don't even have time to like
get on those calls
um
but eventually it just dries up right
and at some point it'll always dry up
and there's like seasonality in these
things and it's like so important early
on to have like a diversified demand gen
strategy and so what I mean by that is
like you have your traditional marketing
right and you have a traditional
outbound but like thinking of it like
more holistically where what are the
other like channels that you can
generate and so like investing in some
type of a channel strategy and like
every business has something so maybe
there's like affiliate Partners or maybe
there's like a brokerage Network or
maybe you know there are other types of
business brokers or it obviously depends
on your industry but like having like a
additional Demand channel strategy
outside of your traditional just like
inbound marketing and like sales
generated opportunities is like so
critical because at one point like one
of these channels is gonna like fall off
and the ability to kind of balance the
different players off one another these
different channels off one another is
gonna like be the critical key
inflection point of whether or not
you'll hit the goal that quarter or that
year
um and so like this is just one I see so
many companies like fail to acknowledge
and the challenge with channel is it
takes a really long time to pay off and
so it's like a multi-year investment and
but it's just something that's like
tough to see the the return early on
yeah you gotta you got to do it all
right you got to have to like if you
actually want to have a chance right
you're gonna have to you know sort of
you know marketing and sort of organic
growth outbound Partnerships referrals
everything right you got to do it all
because one it's you're not gonna get
where you want to go on the backs of you
know sort of a single threaded go to
market strategy or top of the funnel
strategy so
um the people that figure that out
ideally out of the gates but quick
um it's it makes a material difference
in what type of outcome you're looking
at
um yeah and trying to ensure
even more so today where you have so you
know all the different methods and the
ways that you can sort of connect with
people or touch people Marketing sales
related are so
they've been
um Mass replicated on such an epic scale
that finding new ways to get engagement
is
you know that's really that's like the
magic now in my opinion yeah yeah for
the sem SEO game is like become so
expensive to make it unless you have a
really high value product and you can
spend the amount of money I've seen the
unicorns get massive valuations on the
backs of like sort of early marketing
traction right marketing lit growth
traction where you're like hey is that
how field test is is that going to hold
up
um and then it just absolutely hits a
wall right and then they've raised this
massive valuation based on the
expectation that will continue or even
increase and it's it can lead to a very
bad situation for founder
um
yeah and making sure it's well balanced
right so you don't have like nine like
80 555 it's it's five it's like you know
you want it as well balanced as possible
um well I mean kind of what Brandon was
talking to right there like really
brings to the second point or the third
point which is like Payback right like
payback is king queen like it is so and
it's it's a pretty simple when you think
about it it's like all right you know
somebody's paying you 100 a month a seat
right that's 1200 a year in Revenue like
how much are you spending and like but
it's not just how much are you spending
on the sales cost like how much are you
spending on the all-in cost and like so
many companies like just don't calculate
the all-in cost they're just looking
like okay I'm paying my repx and like
here my why marketing dollars but like
there are these other extraneous costs
that are around customer acquisition and
so once you get beyond that like first
million couple million in Revenue
like you need to figure out like what is
the true payback and it's tough early on
because you don't know what is your
lifetime value and so I think that like
we like just for me personally like
going into that if you have a high
lifetime value like our customers like
our churn is very low retention is
extremely high you can spend a lot but
you can be willing to live with a much
longer payback
um but if you don't know that early on
right so you have to make these certain
bets and like thinking about it on a
cohort basis for these customers is so
crucial and I think just like going back
in time you really being able to
understand and like predict to the
extent possible like what are those
churn metrics and those like different
buckets on cohorts because like it can
allow you to spend like you can maybe
spend have an 18 month paper you maybe
have a 24 month Payback right if your
customers are going to stay with you for
six seven eight years yeah yeah it's
it's it's go to market it's expensive
um and you know obviously you know every
company would love to have sort of
marketing lead and organic growth early
but increasing that's not the case right
where companies are increasingly forced
to go outbound right to try to
manufacture them in and if somebody told
me I I'm not sure how accurate is but it
seems accurate you know on average like
with an outbound SDR it's like basically
like a thousand you know somewhere
between a thousand and two thousand
dollars cost per sort of qualified
meeting
um and you know yeah that's tough
most people don't understand how
expensive going outbound is uh it's
expensive
um you have to do it obviously right but
there's you know there's a lot of uh
context and details that go into that
most Founders don't understand that yeah
yeah and then there's these extraneous
costs that aren't included in in CAC
right which is like turnover and churn
and training and like all of these
things that don't kind of show up in the
numbers but you know a rep that leaves
you got to train a new person they gotta
ramp up for the next three to six months
so it's just like a really tough element
to quantify and a lot of people just
miss that
um so moving on to
um to four so like this operational
infrastructure is so crucial like I had
the
um pleasure of like running sales Ops at
a previous company and so for me like I
hired my first three reps and like the
fourth hire I made was a was a sales Ops
person and it sounds like very early but
if you like these things are very these
outcomes are very binary and if you like
really want to think about it over the
long run like do not be cheap and I
think going back I'm like oh my goodness
it's gonna cost me like that 100 a month
for the sales nav license and it costs
like 150 a month for Salesforce and you
think about these costs and like oh my
God what am I gonna do but like the
outcomes are so binary and so when you
think about building an operational
infrastructure like this is is this is
the thing that's going to help you scale
or not right like this is what is going
to like lead to those outcomes and like
having someone there to like really
invest in and I think a lot of Founders
like well wait a minute I just gotta
hire sales people and then what is this
you know Revenue operations and sell
sales Ops infrastructure and it's just
like having the visibility and the data
and the analytics to be able to it's
like flying a play playing blindly like
it's just so critical and I think that a
lot of folks or they might hire a sales
Ops person but like not do Predictive
Analytics or not think about like
statistically significant data and it's
just like something that so many
companies Miss
um and I think you there's almost like
you can't do it too early is kind of the
way I think about it I would be
interested to know what what do you
value most in sort of like a REV Ops
leader right
um so I always I remember when we got
acquired by Adobe the basically they
said you can find a REV Ops person sort
of already an adobe employee right
um but I was really looking for someone
to like kind of challenge me right
challenge your assumptions you know like
you want that you know you don't just
want somebody that's gonna like crunch
numbers and analyze data right but
actually assume day that'll challenge
your conclusions and push you on some
level
it's hard to find by the way yeah yeah I
think that like the some of the best
folks are people who may be sat in the
seat and they were around right but they
have an analytical mind and like maybe
they you know studied economics or math
or something like that and they found
that that's a great suggestion by the
way like that's because I think finding
a great rev lot firing a REV Ops person
is you can find that but finding
somebody that you know that has that
that Viewpoint where they've you know
where you can sort of mesh the analytics
or the data with you know the reality of
having lived it right and owned a number
and understanding the stress and all the
stuff that's associated with it I
actually think that's
not anybody I've not heard anybody say
that before but that's actually great
advice yeah yeah the amount of
credibility that they get on the floor
immediately
um now it's not like it's you know
you're not gonna find they're not like
all over the place right but there are
some of these folks that are just super
analytically minded and they like the
process piece and they just gravitate
towards like the operation like the the
sales flow and like the funnel and like
Salesforce stages and their forecasts
and so I think that just like that
credibility and the ability to like sit
in those shoes and like understand what
they're going through because sales
people got to deal with this plethora
amount of sales tools today and it's
like pretty overwhelming and so like
having the ability to like empathize and
like have that credibility can go in a
really really long way
yeah
um so I have one more here and then
we're gonna punch it over to Ben this is
like a little bit controversial and I
think that like if they're like
investors on the call maybe they won't
like this but so be it
um you know so I think that these like
long-term incentives so obviously a lot
of companies will issue equity and
there's a vest on it and so when early
on we were thinking about like our
business and you know how do we think
about like it takes a lot longer um for
our at our company for example for rep
to ramp and so if you're in like a more
Enterprise motion or a very complex
sales process
um and it takes a little bit longer to
ramp and you know when you have somebody
who's been with the company two three
four years they generally continue to
get better and they could generally
continue to kind of like generate more
money now you know maybe their quota
doesn't go up at the same slope but
we kind of resorted to like what are
thinking about building this book of
business and what I mean by that is that
like you know net of churn net of
expansion so if you close like half a
million dollars in a year after that
first year maybe it's 600 maybe it's
700. and every year as you build on that
book of business net of churn net of
expansion
like that becomes very valuable to the
company and so we implemented these
mechanisms where as a rep you can after
a certain 10-year thresholds you can
start making a percentage on your book
net of expansion net of churn and so it
aligns incentives such that like if you
sign a company and they turn after two
years that hits against you now
double fold if you sign a company and
they double in Revenue after three years
that benefits you now you continue you
have to continue to hit your quota
there's a minimum threshold for that
payment to kick in
um but what it's done for us is aligned
incentives to bring on like good
business that stays with us that grows
and at the same time it's enabled reps
to basically like generate a lot more
income up and above their OTE assuming
they continue to perform
now if a rep misses their quota for a
quarter like that can be very painful
because they're walking they're missing
out on a huge like a very big paycheck
but what it does do is it's like you
know especially a few years ago when
people were throwing crazy OTS out there
like it's it's a way to really
incentivize rep retention and
incentivize long-term business value
creation
yeah completely agree
so Brennan we'll kick it over to you
all right
um yeah you know worth a lot of our you
know there's pretty consistent themes in
my opinion with the best sales leaders
I've known right is that they see a lot
of things pretty similar
um you know I mean I think being a VP of
sales or a sales leader in a startup or
Growth Company it's hard right and a lot
of times you are working for found you
know Founders maybe that's their first
time ever doing it
and so there's always there's this
there's this gap between sort of
aspiration and like what's possible
right and so you know some people will
say oh well like you can't blame the VP
of sales because they didn't have XYZ
etc etc but in my experience in a
startup like can't you can't say can't
right nobody wants to hear Cam and if if
can't is in your vocabulary then on some
level it's a tough gig right and it's
not for everyone
but like you have to replace can't with
uh Solutions right so if there's if
there's a
um something that's in a hill that seems
impossible to climb or an impossible
task or whatever it is you have to come
up with Solutions and in some cases that
will help lead a founder or CEO to you
know maybe a more reasonable conclusion
but come with Solutions straight
solutions to problems I think is is in a
startup is pair is imperative in when
you're a VP of sales and you're saying I
can't do that because
um it's just you know I don't have a lot
of sympathy right for for more reasons
why you'll see in a later slide but
there's you know like yeah that's
generally my world view there is come
with sources not can't yeah one way I
think about this is like you're gonna
run into a brick wall yeah instead of
questions like
can you are you gonna hit the wall and
complain about it or are you gonna like
figure out a way around it are you gonna
go over it are you gonna yeah and you
can't just be a yes right if you're just
if you can't just say yes to everything
right
um because you will get
um walked into you know an impossible
situation on some level but yeah you
have to be able to stand you know stand
your ground on the on the important
things but do it in a way that has
optionality and solutions yeah oh go
ahead right it's like the it's like the
rep driven uh it's like the fictitious
rep divin uh financial model that a
first-time CFO like builds and it's like
oh if you hire 50 reps like you're gonna
be you're gonna be good and that's where
you need to push back right and it's
like how do you build like a Bottoms Up
driven model but how do you build a
demand driven model right and how do you
like build those two independently that
meet in the middle and like then you
basically can like stress test it yeah
all right
yeah so uh be friendly but yeah you're
not friends with your team
um so and again there's there's all
sorts of context to that but
um you know a guy I know is the cure for
a company called zip recruiter this guy
Kevin Gaither who I respect
um was talking about this the other day
but the bottom line is you know you can
be a player coach and you could you can
be a you know uh someone that your team
respects and maybe loves but you have to
be able to push them right you have to
be able to hold them accountable and
sometimes that there are uncomfortable
conversations to be out there and sort
of once you're over this line of you
know this is an employee versus a friend
um it's tough to come back so I think
that was a learning early in my career
how I felt I was a great sort of coach
and leader right but like I was
unwilling to push my team very early in
my career and call them out right and
make them uncomfortable and that was you
know that was learning that is critical
I think to to actually being a leader
yeah yeah and it's like the best people
are the ones that like crave that right
they crave like the rough like hard
feedback but like no one else maybe they
don't crave it but they step up the most
right that's fair that's okay right
right they may not they may not like it
but in retrospect they'll they'll they
like really appreciate it yeah
yeah
um
all right
yeah I think this is a learning rate
where I think early in your you know
when you're when you're early in your
career as a sales leader you hire you
know on some level maybe it's
unconscious but you hire people that are
good but maybe like you want to be the
smartest person in the room right
um and maybe you want to be the most
talented person in the room and I think
you know the further you get along you
want to hire people that are ideally
even better than you or have more
potential than you and more upside from
you and you want you want people that
um you want people that want to be you
know VPS of sales and cros and have that
ambition and some people uh shy away
from that because they think it'll sort
of Drive have them sort of unfocus off
of like well I don't want somebody
dreaming about being a VP of sales when
they're an account executive today but
in my experience uh people with that
kind of ambition
um very rarely are they unwilling to put
the work in if you hire the right people
um and so that sort of became you know
certainly a talk desk the goal was like
hey everyone we hire you know we you
want them to have it may not be a VP of
sales or maybe something else but you
want them to have
something bigger or something you know
aspirational some goal out there you
know that they want to strive for that's
not just you know they don't want to be
an account executive for 35 years right
I think that's a reasonable expectation
um and so that's good you want you want
to hire those and also people by the way
that will push you and challenge you and
call you out
um I want to have those people in the
room the best people that ever worked
for me were people that were willing to
uh challenge me and challenge my
assumptions and beliefs
um I I like that yeah
all right
it looks like Robert might be frozen
am I Frozen no you're good oh good am I
Frozen no no I think Robert might be
frozen for a second so let's just give
him
one more moment
there we go it looks like he will be
rejoining but I also have your slides so
I can pull them up as well
always gotta have a backup plan tip 11.
applied four or slide nine I guess yeah
absolutely
okay
uh one more yeah there we go so you know
I think this goes without saying Talent
of a resume right like resumes you know
resumes are
um Liars in a lot of ways
um and you know it it doesn't tell the
story of like Hey where's this person
and their career right now
um and you know there there's a lot of
different scenarios in which somebody
can be successful there's a lot of
people that walk into incredible
scenarios right or they walk into a
company where they have
so you know this brand or this
recognition sort of behind them right at
their
um at their back and so like you know in
the context of like a startup like the
scenario is who's going to come in here
and be able to sell something
a product that no one's ever heard of
maybe for a problem that nobody
acknowledged exists
um we have no brand recognition and uh
you know hey knock yourself out right
sort of scenario and that's that's a
really hard thing to do it takes a
certain type of person that you know is
almost like looking for conflict or
looking for looking for debate
um and it's really really hard to find
it and oftentimes hiring the resume and
saying oh this guy was at Salesforce or
this one because this person was it
Oracle or whatever it is
well that's that's great but like okay
you know the questions are what next
after that because you know trust me
you're not going to get on a call and
say you're from Salesforce here you're
going to get on a call they've never
heard of you
they probably don't want to talk to you
um what then
um and so yeah calendar of a resume it's
and it's hard it is high you know that
the hiring sales people in a startup is
brutally difficult with extraordinarily
High turnover rates
for VPS and sales as well I think it's
you know I think there's some statistic
that like 90 plus percent of the first
VPS of sales hired at a startup turnover
inside of 12 months or less than 12
months
um so it's uh you know
it's a risk
one thing I hate about Zoom is which has
happened to me so um so we go now that
Zoom is a work for uh yeah in the office
company right we'll get some of these
fakes I I did just want to jump in on
this because there was this like story
that's so on point here like I
interviewed this this one guy um and
he's actually still works with us today
he was a stockbroker and he was
literally Hawking stock like literally
selling stocks no like not salary
commission only
and like the drive to the previous Point
Brennan was making and like the ambition
that you saw like he could just like he
couldn't even sit in his chair right and
he just like wanted to win and he wanted
to learn and he just like wanted it and
and so it's like do you have the raw
talent and do you like want do you have
that drive it's like we can craft and
like train the software piece of it so
sometimes when I see companies like oh
we need software experience it's like
you don't need software experience you
need somebody that like has the ambition
and the drive and the will and like you
can train it's your responsibility as a
VP of sales to train that right yeah on
some level right you'd rather get
somebody with the talent and the raw
sort of characteristics over maybe
somebody that comes in with bad habits
right
right because people that come in with
bad habits
um they're hard to break right they're
hard to re-coach or retrain whereas
somebody that has the raw talent and you
can sort of Coach them up and teach them
in in your way or in the way that works
for your company
um you know I think that you know is
going to work out more times than not I
mean obviously finding people that have
the raw talent is not that easy but
right and the infamous like where are my
inbound leads right it's like well the
last startups don't happen so there's
none all right uh five
um yeah do your due diligence this is
simple most people don't do it you know
90 out of 100 startups are not going to
make it that's a fact it might be more
than that that's actually might be an
optimistic number they're not going to
make it it's a high risk environment
um you know and by not making it it
means like you know there's some sort of
outcome in which you know the chairs and
the computers are are rolled out of the
building and into a moving truck right
nobody made any money etc etc etc so
um you know that this is why when people
are like oh I took this job and like
yeah this founder is impossible I I
can't I can't deal with this person
right his expectations aren't reasonable
and I'm like yeah you you know you
didn't do your dude you know if you had
done some due diligence right on this
particular person some cases you can't
do it by the way but like you do your
due diligence to find out who who is
this person right like what you know
where are they coming from what is it
like you know what is it like to work
for this person what does experience
others have had diligence on the company
right and so like people you know
I think people have this uh sort of
um overwhelming up to optimism right if
you talk to 100 startups you think 50
have a chance and if you say that 90 in
10 have a chance well does that change
your perspective now right that like
maybe like if I know Robert Lopez or
Marc Jacobs or
um Kevin Gaither or Sam blonde or Brenda
Cassidy right these people are in my
Orbit get three opinions on that company
because I can guarantee you if you're
talking to smart people not everyone's
going to be like oh no brainer do it
right you're gonna get a nuanced
analysis of it and by the way if if you
you haven't done that then you are
setting yourself up to fail
yeah this point almost makes me sad
sometimes because it's like I've seen
that well Robert's default positions no
so every company within a thousand
square miles of them is probably uh made
some sort of inquiry to him and like
yeah I've just seen like people whatever
leave our company or other people I know
like join another company and they just
like I'm just like just ask a question
right even people that I like in my
respect that work for me over the years
and like I try to have open relationship
but it's like sometimes people throw a
carrot out there and like are we gonna
pay you X and you get there and then
sure enough 12 months later I get a call
and they're like yeah you know you were
like you're right it's like look if
you're gonna leave that's fine let's
have a conversation I'll try to help
find you the right gig and let's put a
transition plan in place and and what
have you but I think that like these the
world is pretty small and uh you know
like the and there are so many like easy
signs like all right you know what are
the investors like who who are the you
can get in touch with like who are the
investors that passed on the deal right
and like what what did they say
um but uh but it is it can be tough
um but it is so important or you could
just like cold email if it's an AE role
it's you called email a wrap or cold
email somebody else at the company if
you're looking for a VP job and like
what are the Reps think is it is it real
is it not real
um how many you know good questions like
you know which is just an early sign of
traction is like how many leads do you
have a month inbound leads right that's
a great question I guarantee you Robert
if he's going to look at something he's
going to ask that question right and if
the answer is zero there may you know
Robert may continue talking to that
person but he's probably not coming
um and so yeah like I think yeah how
many leads do you have a month oh really
a hundred great um can you forward
something you know tell the CEO hey can
you forward some to me as they come in
or however they're coming in there's
some sort of you know
um you know web lead to web web to lead
you know sort of thing internally some
email probably notification yeah send
some to me right and by the way if
you're a CEO trying to recruit someone
like Robert that's a great way to sort
of
gain you know familiarity and comfort
and trust is just by sharing share some
of the good things happening in the
company because right now it's just you
saying it about how incredible the
opportunity is or the space is or
whatever else it is but prove it right
show them you know hey like look we got
here's a great lead we just came in you
know just works came in as a lead you
know which you know and another thing
that's like it's always like hey a
company is doing whatever 20 and they
want to finish the year at 30 but it's
like well what do they start the year at
last year and what do they want to
finish the year like what was the plan
last year and like where did you get at
it because a lot of people just focus
moving forward not what the last couple
years look like and did they hit it did
they not yeah the the most in-demand
people VPS of sales and cereals are
tremendously risk-averse most people
don't understand this right they're not
going to put their land their their chin
out for you most likely
and so
um they're going to do their due
diligence really starting it no right so
they're doing due diligence being like
could I do enough due diligence to
create an overwhelming case for yes
um which you know a lot there's a most
CEOs start out with this sort of
Fantastical vision of their view who
their VP of sales is I've talked about
this a number of times but like oh like
you know here's my top 10 list and like
I'll tell them and say yeah I can
probably help set up a conversation with
some of these people but they're not
coming right so where's the second list
where's the list of the people that you
might you know that actually might be
able to come in here and be successful
that you might be able to hire so
um because yeah the best people are
going to do a ton of due diligence a lot
of times we'll deal with each other
right Robert that will bounce something
up Marc Jacobs Marc Jacobs to me
samblanc you know it's a small community
right we all a lot of us know each other
and respect each other because we know
how hard this is
um yeah so that's it that's that's my
fifth
so I think we got questions now right
yes so we are going to stop screen
sharing and move on to some questions
from the audience if when you want to
kick us off
sure thanks Caitlyn and thank you Robert
and Brandon for sharing the great
insights so I have three questions
actually the first one is uh uh Robert
when it comes to the journey the whole
journey of just works
um how how did the go to market strategy
evolve uh since when the company was
like you know zero to ten customers and
then 10 to 100 100 a thousand a thousand
above and how did you know it's time to
make changes that might be an hour-long
podcast
I'll see if Robert can distill this down
into a couple minutes 40 seconds
um I I mean like the the big thing for
us was that like trying to stay focused
like early I think a lot of companies
it's like and quite frankly this this is
probably like on a V2 of this like now
that I'm talking at it it was like what
do I wish I knew it's like you see so
much opportunity and like that company
give you a customer that coming but like
the country we live in a like depending
on where you're focused let's say you're
focused on the U.S market to start it is
such a massive Market it's like where do
you have product Market fit like think
about the customer adoption curve like
where are your innovators like who is
going to be that ICP initially and just
go really deep right because there are
these referral Loops right if once you
get a couple logos like they're these
referral Loops it's like oh like early
for us like Trello was a customer and
Casper was a customer and so I get on
the phone and people's like oh have you
heard of like Trello or Casper and we
were like in New York Tech and you know
the answer is going to be yes right so
there you have your proof point right
and so once we actually like were able
to build up that then we're like all
right what's the next Geo that's going
to focus that we're going to focus on
let's go deep in that Geo now we have
nuances in our business where like Geo
and health insurance is very relevant
every business has their own thing but
like that's just like really like
focusing early and once we were getting
a certain amount of reps at quota then
we would like double down there and then
we would start looking at Geo and we
would have these like markets that once
they became profitable then we would go
to our next market right and so we would
look at a market by market profit
ability level and that's how we would
double down and then we would just build
on that as we grew up yeah once you get
Trello and then you get the neck you
know the next player sort of behind
Trello right it becomes this sort of
like almost like ver up sort of viral
sort of customer Loop right yeah
everybody you know everybody's somewhat
similar to them you know it becomes a
huge selling asset for them because yeah
Michael Pryor was like we like joked
that he was on staff and he was like
yeah I've done so many referral calls
for you guys like him he like hooked me
up with something right like you know
just like yeah like those things that's
worth sales for the trailer the Trello
and those others you could probably hear
him referenced about 100 times a day
maybe more yeah
thank you guys it's just it sounds like
really The Landmark logos first make
sure they're successful and happy and
then just expand to The Logical
yeah but I think it's like specifically
logos that your ICP knows and respects
right because like oh if they're using
if they're using this product then like
oh it's pretty good there's like those
proof points where it's not just some
company that nobody knows and like the
space you're going after nice cool so
thank you guys and the second question I
have is as a sales leader how do you
tell if there is sufficient product
Market fit for you to thrive in early
days uh you guys talk about doing the
diligence but in the early days I saw
Robert you joined just work uh just
works like a year after the founding how
do you know like this is gonna work out
like how do you tell me I definitely
didn't I think we had like six eight
months of cash left but I was just like
well if it doesn't work out I wasn't
gonna happen right
um I think for me I actually did a
really big diligence process so like my
uh a family member has a small business
so I went through the demo process with
ADP with a TriNet with the paychecks and
it was so god-awful like I remember one
company sent me a PDF
to fill out to like get a quote it was
and they wouldn't even send me a word
doc and I was like all right you don't
even need to build a you don't even need
to build a good product you just have to
be a little bit better than this and
like I'm confident that I can execute it
and so that was really where I was at I
think it was probably like you know
maybe a little bit of dumb luck there
but that that's
the looks like Robert
rose again he was making a great point
though yes oh man Zoom every time
um
when did you have any other questions
um I'll I'll uh let uh other folks ask
questions I've already taken up quite a
bit of the time so thank you Caitlin
thank you no worries we love it any
questions Ryan we are going to move on
to you if you would like to ask your
questions and then Raul I see you in the
queue too
hi yeah thanks for today I actually got
a lot out of this so I appreciate it
um I'm still learning uh SAS sales on a
daily basis
um we after like two years three sdrs
and pretty much my life savings it was
clear to me that I had no business
building a sales team from scratch
um I've always been the Lone Wolf sales
guy in my market that would build cold
markets into like 30 million dollar
books but I was literally selling nuts
and bolts so I've never sold software
and thanks to a product pivot in
December we found our true market fit uh
with our clients and have been fairly
successful this year on bringing on
large Enterprise contracts and then
thanks to saster I've learned enough to
sell our own product myself but um I've
got the director of sales role that's
ready to be a VP that I'm gonna I'm
targeting him for March
um so I'm doing the courting um he's at
a big Enterprise company going on the
oracles but we worked together at an
incubator and he built a sales team from
scratch and he knows SAS sales so I've
got that stuff figured out but Jason's
always VP of sales VP of marketing I
learned everything about marketing from
Neil Patel I learned everything about
SAS sales from saster
but I don't know what to do outside of
that courting relationship so I've got
that VP of sales potential but I don't
even really know what a cro or CMO I
don't know who's next like who else
should I be courting it I don't have my
five people that that's the short
question how do I plan for those five
people
five people
um I'll answer a considering Robert's uh
somewhere else but uh yeah are they uh
five like salespeople like just
generally it rolls generally like Beyond
sales or no you mentioned earlier that
if Robert were to ever leave his current
role that he has five people that he
knows he would bring on immediately when
he starts you have a like a director of
sales per somebody that Oh I thought you
said you were recording somebody I'm
recording yes I'm quoting that VP of
sales role but I don't know who else I
should be dating
um uh on the other sides of that cro CMO
that that mix of what else do I need
next
um is where I'm missing a gap I would
say most companies will probably hire
like a marketing leader right like you
know before sales later I mean obviously
in a startup being able to hire a
marketing leader that's that is
um an expert in driving sort of like top
of the funnel right because as you know
right any sort of organic traction and
growth is it just relieves a lot of the
you know
the stress and the pain right from
having to go 100 100 outbounds were
really really hard right nothing harder
right where you're having to tell people
hey please talk to us right please we
got something to say right that's just a
hard life to live so if you can find a
marketing leader VP of marketing CMO
that that is great at sort of Demands
gen marketing which by the way I can
give you about a thousand other
companies right that are looking for the
same thing it's hard to find right
um if you can find that then then that's
a career higher if you're but I would
not hire a VP of marketing
um if they can't do that at your stage
right yeah
highly competent in my opinion and
demand gen on top of the funnel because
you know you've we've read Jason's
content he's got this like you know if
your VP Market if all your VP marketing
does is get blue pens or something right
yes so it's one of the best articles
ever put up and like that's like that's
this sort of like no inside baseball
known thing in the startup Community
right is you're going to hire a
marketing leader and they can't help you
in the top of the funnel then like my
God they better be great at some other
stuff because I mean the other thing is
that like I don't know exactly your
business particularly but if you do have
a lower end segment to like invest in
like a product like a self-service
motion earlier on that can like try to
help that on-ramp and so like you know
I've been leading our initiative there
for a while and like those things also
pay take a really long time to play off
but you can focus your sales
organization a little bit further up
market and then try to have some type of
on-ramp like like very lightweight low
cost just to get them in the ecosystem
get them familiar with your type the
prod types of products that you use that
could be like like more of like a
product growth leader
um to like pair because everyone talks
about product Lego sales leg growth like
I believe like you got to have a
marriage between the two like very few
products can exceptionally execute like
plg well but like if you have the two
that are married like some buyers like
they kind of want to talk to somebody
some people some buyers don't want to
talk to anybody it's like you've got to
have the marriage like like a a really
great marriage between the two to
successfully execute like a long Gap
value chain and then you talked about
hiring this recording this head of sales
candidate
um I'm assuming you don't want to say
their name here so uh but this person
is this you know who who are they going
to bring with them right right which you
know I wrote down the his five that's a
question that I'm going to ask is who
would you who who do you bring on board
with you no it's it's an opportunity for
him or her whoever it is right you they
get a chance I'm assuming they're
probably not a law you know they haven't
been a VP of sales for 10 years maybe
this is their first time yeah they can
they get to build the team right with
the people that they want and that's a
great opportunity for them to really you
know
have a chance to do it
um with your support you're the founder
I'm assuming yes
um and if you have the right person
um you know it can be an incredible
thing
um assuming you're sure
that's all great I appreciate it we
we're fortunate we were industry experts
in in mechanical design from phones to
tractors to iPhones so the what y'all
call the linoleum we speak those those
people's language and so we had to learn
how to sell the CTO that's that's what
saster taught us we already knew how to
sell the client the the people using our
products love it we just didn't know how
to convince the VP of Finance to to
purchase it and that's where we've kind
of grown but now we're getting marketing
opportunities through PR and I'm we're
trying to capitalize on that but but
getting some sort of funnel introduction
path of bringing in potential clients
into a world that they can trial learn
experience courses that's the Gap that
I'm currently trying to fill so you guys
were spot on thank you very much
yeah
great okay our next question Raul
hi guys thank you to have me here
um I'm Rahul I'm the director of
customer success at recruit CL so I had
a question around uh rev UPS uh
basically I've set up basic uh
infrastructure or the basic report or
dashboards there although I'm struggling
to find out like what are the real
statistics that we need to look at in
order to understand the Journey of the
customer the cost of acquisition and
things like that
so would you have any suggestions for me
how I can initiate building up that kind
of a uh maybe a team of devops
I think Robert you mentioned I mean yeah
I think that I mean one of the things
that I think a lot of companies fail at
is that like they they have their like
they build their stages and their stages
are kind of like rep dependent so it's
like oh like a rep says oh I'm
interested the next stage it's like I'm
a big believer they need to be like very
binary and so like what quantifying
aspect does the company like does the
company need to do something do they
need to fill something out do they need
to submit something do they actually
have to have an action whereas not rep
dependent and so maybe they have to like
you know fill out a document or whatever
it is and so like making sure the stages
are very quantifiable and measurable and
then ensuring that like velocity and
throughput is measured like a lot of
companies don't listen they're all about
generating pipeline generating pipeline
generating pipeline but it's like what
is the velocity of that pipeline that's
harder to measure right and what is the
age of that Pipeline and what are this
how what's the throughput like R is the
velocity moving through across the year
and the way it should and trying to kind
of like layer on like certain like type
of active analytics around it once you
have enough data and like statistical
modeling in order to do so
um but I think that like first and
foremost it's like what is the the
tooling that you if you're just using
Salesforce today
um like there are like you know
different types of tonight the scale of
your business but I think it's just like
at a high level it's like nail the
stages like ensure you have the backup
data to to prove it and then you can
start layering on more like
sophisticated tooling to to understand
like what the velocity looks like
right yeah I think we're using HubSpot
at the moment although we personally our
department uses costify as a CS platform
so I'm kind of trying to build some
different dashboards for that in a
different Tool uh that could actually
help them understand how much cost of
acquisition do we have for a customer
and uh basically what kind of incentive
plans should we go for uh go in order to
make sure that you know we are retaining
those customers and things like that
again something to be fair for our sales
reps as well as CS reps
so I'm just trying to figure that out I
had one more question around uh again
our CS team I know they're not exactly
sales people although I want them to
Target more on uh expanding their
businesses around different Affiliates
let's say if we have a recruit
recruiting agency who is our customer
but they would have some Affiliates in
different countries so should they reach
out to those Affiliates or should we
have sales people jump in and help the
Cs uh csms to reach out to those people
what do you mean by Affiliates sorry
um so let's say uh we have a company
who's uh who's based in the US they have
some Affiliates or Partners let's say in
India or in Spain somewhere yeah so
great
so again uh yeah I mean I I think that
if you're having your your CSM should be
focused on like just making sure the
customer is like the most incredibly
happy it almost sounds like this is like
a like a chat like I was talking a
little bit earlier about channel
strategy like it sounds like that might
be an opportunity if you think that like
you know what because different partners
are motivated by different things some
Partners like want to rev share some
Partners just want to make their clients
look good and offering them a great tool
and there's some type of referral moment
there but like I think for customer
success like they just need to be
exclusively focused on like how like you
know on referral Loops right how can
they be generating referrals how can
they just make sure upon renewal like
that your product is the best thing like
out there and they're willing to like
scream it from the rooftops and like
measuring things like customer effort
score
um csat
um NPS like just maniacally like very
very Focus we measure we have a quality
team in our CS organization that like
measures the quality of customer actions
because at scale it's very hard to do
and so like those are the things and
like and you can measure like the
success there about like are companies
referring and how is that working out
but it sounds like you might need that
might be like a like a role specifically
focusing on like an affiliate channel
for how big you guys are so like how
many employees versus like you know how
much capital and all that kind of stuff
and hiring a partner person is like with
that I'm sure I'm assuming you have a VP
of sales but all usually it would sort
of roll up to a VP of sales but
sometimes that what they own sort of
sits in this uh you know Between The
Raindrops so to speak
um and so but like I definitely think
leaning into the partner
a partner sort of specific role earlier
is like sort of a reality now it's it's
a it's a smart thing to do
um because you know everyone's looking
for
you know a way to diversify like I think
Robert talked about or diversify your
top of the funnel and demand gen
strategy
that's a real Channel
Brendan Robert I know we're at time can
we sneak in one more question of course
we can okay and today is more efficient
world do reps need to close more to make
their OTS if so how have you helped
folks adjust I'm not sure many have
fully
yeah well well I think that we're not
finding that they need to like close
more what we're finding it takes more
activities to like more outbound
activity to generate the same amount of
pipeline right so like that's like
statistically like we've like looked
across the funnel and like that at least
on the outbound of the outbound flow and
so like I think that they don't need to
say close more they need to kind of you
know work harder basically to generate
it and so we've been trying to like you
know ensure that we have a balanced
demand gen strategy and so we've been
investing a little bit more on our
partner channel to kind of help
alleviate some of that there and so
we've like created certain incentives in
certain subpartner channels to try to
create more demand to kind of buffer
some of that because we don't want to
like make sure the reps are like too
overworked
um you know sales development like has
become quite a commodity like we
actually use I'm a big believer in it
but it's like everybody's like it's just
spray and pray type of situation right
now and so like there's a lot of noise
and so we we kind of use sales
development almost as like a way for us
to create opportunity for the company
and pipeline but also create opportunity
for the Reps in future account
Executives like so we review that as a
farm system for just works that's almost
like first and foremost and it also
generates a lot of business
um but I think you need to like get
creative around different types of
strategies right now because it just it
the truth the fact of the matter is it's
just taking a lot more work to generate
the same amount we've actually seen
close rates go up a little bit actually
lately
um after like a slow q1
um but it's just taking a little bit
longer sales Cycles have extended a
little bit Yeah I'd say there's a very
um sort of dynamic conversation
happening with VPS of sales right now
right
um where you know sort of the
traditional of like you're at your SDR
team owns all of it right sort of you
know where your SDR owns this massive
you know sort of whatever you want to
call it qualified leads meetings number
what whatever it is in your city your
sales people are just sort of waiting
for their calendars to be filled up
and I think it's you know sort of a
concept
um there's a guy named Scott Lee so I'm
friends with
who everyone's probably heard of before
he's a very active LinkedIn content
producer but it's called the full stack
AE right where your account executives
are going to have to own some of the
burden to drive the top of the funnel
um because you know and like in the
actually attacking the top of the funnel
more strategically than just let's send
150 000 cadences or you know cold calls
and all that like there's
um there's a lot of value to be had by
doing that and there's it's very topical
right now and relevant and the best GPS
of sales are are having this
conversation now every day and you
better be yeah yeah I mean since day one
for us we've focused there like I'm a
big believer that you know AES need to
be like Hunters first and they're
they're managed to generating a certain
amount of self-source opportunities this
goes like years back because like you
never know when some of those channels
are going to dry up and so like you want
to be able to like control I don't want
them doing it the same way you're
yeah no we focus big on referral like
that's so one of like a small hack we
did early on which was really successful
was like we basically said after an AE
closes a deal we set up some nurture
campaigns to the AE saying hey your
customers signed on 60 days ago 120 days
ago as like a reminder for them to check
back in with their customer hey is it
like what I thought what I said it was
going to be how are you enjoying the
product just as like a an easy way for
them to follow up
um and at that point if they were having
a good experience it was a great
opportunity to like ask for a referral
and it lets the it's hard for an a to
organize that and so we just tried to
like give them like almost an internal
Cadence like as a way for them to like
get a reminder to basically build that
book of business over time and generate
referrals because you know referrals for
us close at 50 60 percent
close rate which is I mean I'd rather
like you know have two two opportunities
right and like to get there rather than
four to five and so we try to just like
embed that in like the cultural like
systematize that in the in the system
yeah referrals are a great thing to
embed into your go to market recruiting
everything that you're doing people
don't do it enough to be frank
um and it's it's it's a force multiplier
um you know things that come
um through people you know or vouch for
people you know whether it's hiring or
selling or whatever it is
it's really not it's it's lower hanging
fruit than you know let's go cold call a
thousand uh Founders or VPS of sales or
whatever it is like they're not picking
the phone up okay and there's there
definitely are people out there that are
still living in that world of like yeah
like you know I roll my sleeves up I got
my coffee cup like it's going very Glenn
Ross and then you know I'm gonna bang
out you know 500 cold calls today but
you know
you know and God bless the people that
can make a living off that but it's not
enough right yeah yeah well everyone has
to hop off of this call and go uh get
some referrals so with that thank you so
much Brendan and Robert that was an
awesome session so much positive
feedback in the chat we really
appreciate your time and your 10 tips
next week we have raising capital in
2023 what it takes to raise in the
current market and the data to prove it
so we will see you all next week and
thank you again Brendan and Robert
thanks everybody